[Transcript missing]
I know it's early and it's Thursday,
and I guess a lot of people might
have stayed up late watching
Lord of the Rings last night.
So I'm Jeff Glasson.
I'm the manager of the
WebObjects Core Frameworks team,
and I'm going to be talking for about
25 minutes about the EJB features
that are part of WebObjects,
and then I'll bring up
Stefan Reich and Arti Wilhout,
who will go through some demos.
Okay, so what kind of--this
is not an intro course.
We're going to make a few assumptions
that you have a basic understanding
of WebObjects that you should
have gotten this week so far if
you've attended the other sessions.
And also,
I'm going to assume that you have a
basic knowledge of what EJB and J2EE is.
This is not an intro to J2EE or
definition of EJB terms.
We're just going to talk about
the integration of EJB and
WebObjects and what we've done.
What we are going to go over, though,
is how EJB and EOF are complementary,
not competing technologies,
and how having an EJB container benefits
WebObjects applications and you,
the developers.
And I'm going to try to get you
to understand how to develop
and deploy EJBs using our tools.
So again, we're not going to cover how to
design beans or how to implement
beans in general or go over some
J2EE design patterns or sun blueprints.
That's an exercise for the reader.
So here's the order of things.
We're going to go over some of the
strengths of EOF and EJB and how they
complement each other or compete,
as we'll discover.
We'll go over the specific EJB container
implementation that we put in WebObjects.
We'll be going over how we
integrated that into the product.
We'll have lots of demos,
and then we'll go over some
tips and tricks for debugging,
and then we should have time for Q&A.
You'll have to excuse me.
I'm getting over a cold,
so I may be coughing a lot during this.
So when you talk about EJB,
you talk about there's a
number of versions of EJB that
have been shipped by Sun.
What we've done is we've
bundled an EJB 1.1 compatible
container with the product.
The reason we did that is that right
now the current component marketplace
out there is based on EJB 1.1 beans.
And the primary driver for us,
including EJB,
as part of the WebObjects product,
was for you to be able to take
pre-written beans and integrate
them into your applications.
One important thing to note is the
container is not Sun certified,
so we are believed to
be EJB 1.1 compatible,
but we are not J2EE compliant.
So,
if you went to the intro to EOF session,
I believe it was Tuesday afternoon,
you kind of got an
overview of what EOF is.
There's some more EOF sessions
later in the day today,
but I wanted to go over some strengths
that EOF brings to the table.
One of the big things is that your
business logic and your EOs are
completely data source independent.
If you've used EOF,
you know that you don't have to change
your code at all if you're writing,
if you swap your database out.
If you want to talk to JNDI,
you don't know that it's
JNDI really in your business logic.
We hide all the database specifics,
such as SQL generation and
primary key generation.
You can change your schema,
meaning edit your model
without changing your code.
So you can add a new column,
generate a table,
your business logic necessarily
doesn't have to change.
Relationships are handled
automatically for you.
As you've seen in the real
estate demonstrations,
you can have listings
and agents and customers.
And the relationships and the
joins are all handled for you
automatically by the EOF frameworks.
We have a great set of
rapid development tools.
The direct-to-web, direct-to-Java client,
direct-to-web services
are good examples of that.
And let you prototype and develop
applications very quickly.
And another big strength
of EOF is the model's been
optimized for in-process use.
What I mean by that is that
We have really good caching,
and we assume that everything
happens in a single application.
So we can batch up
requests to the database,
and we can be very intelligent
about how we query the database
and keep a lot of state around.
So what about EJB?
So EJB has got a very strong
transaction security model.
What that means is they have,
the architecture's been
designed for distributed
two-phase commit transactions,
and corpus security's built into this,
and all kinds of other bigger
enterprise scale models.
It's been designed for
multi-client remote access.
Another reason there's two-phase commit
there is you can have really distributed
things and everybody can talk to it,
and the transaction manager
and the EJB container handles
the concurrency for you.
You get a lot of access
to third-party beans.
There is an emerging
marketplace out there.
Shopping cart beans
are starting to pop up.
SAP's got beans, for example,
to talk to them.
There's a number of things that you
can just plug in and drop into your
application without having to write it.
And then there's other data sources
that you can access through that,
such as using the JCA architecture.
I think SAP, again, is another example of
what they have there.
And also JMS is possible also.
It's built on top of RMI IIOP,
which allows any programming
language client to access it
through a corba-like interface.
And the biggest strength is
it is considered standard
as far as J2EE is concerned.
So why do we add this to the product?
Well, as you saw,
there are different strains.
They really are not the same.
Yes, they're both ways to access
data from an application,
persistent data, but it is not,
you don't use it the same way.
So what we wanted to do is we
wanted to leverage the existing
EJB component marketplace and allow
people to take these beans that are
starting to appear and plop them
into their WebObjects application.
It also complements the servlet support
that we added to WebObjects 5.1.
So if you are a J2EE customer already,
you can deploy your WebObjects
application as a servlet,
and it makes perfect sense that
you would want to access EJB and
some other J2EE services also.
And this also gives us a chance to
provide a complete solution from Apple so
you don't have to go out and buy someone
else's container if you don't want to.
So you can take Tomcat and
Mac OS X Server with WebObjects
5.1 and have pretty close to
a J2EE compatible solution.
Almost said compliant,
which would have been a big mistake.
So what did we choose?
We investigated a lot
of various solutions,
including writing one ourself.
But as you guys probably know,
it's pretty complicated,
and we would need a large
engineering staff to do that.
So we looked at what was out
there in the open source world
and the commercial world and tried
to weigh into what we wanted.
Some of the requirements that we
needed were that the container
needed to be self-contained.
And what that means is that we
wanted a pluggable container.
A lot of the open or freely available or
even commercial products out there today,
their EJB container is very tightly
integrated into their application
server and not easily separable.
We wanted to make sure that we
were able to keep the Web component
model that we have as part of
WebObjects that you guys have known
and loved for the number of years.
And so it was very important
to us that this was a modular,
pluggable,
extensible container that we could
easily drop into the container.
That we could easily drop into the
existing product without a lot of
rework and compatibility problems.
And we really wanted
RMI IIOP support for that also,
to allow other systems to
talk easily to the beans.
So that really only left this one choice,
as far as we could tell.
It's called OpenEJB.
It's an open source project.
It lives on SourceForge.
And it is a standalone
EJB 1.1 compatible container.
And all of the services
that the EJB container
requires are pluggable by us,
the integrator.
What that means is we were free to choose
the transaction manager that we wanted,
the orb that we wanted,
the persistence manager support,
and all of the associated services
we were able to pick and choose and
integrate that into the product.
It has a rapid development mode.
That means that you are able to quickly
turn around and iterate on your bean.
That's actually something that's
not in WebObjects 5.1 but is
planned for a forthcoming release.
It also has a pretty efficient small
footprint as far as EJB is concerned.
It's not very heavyweight.
And it does come built in
with the RMI IIOP support.
Excuse me.
So what did we pick for services?
These are also open source projects.
We picked OpenOrb,
which is a Corba compliant orb.
Tyrex is a transaction manager.
Tyrex is actually used in a number
of other commercial products,
including JBoss,
and I think Sun uses it in
some of the Netscape stuff.
And Castor is a persistence manager,
which allows us to manage
database connections.
Tyrex and Castor kind of interplay
with each other for connection
pooling and transaction management.
So what OpenEJB is not is it is
not a product that competes with
WebLogic or some of the other heavy
duty commercial grade J2EE servers.
It really is intended for you,
the developer,
to develop beans and prototype and test
beans or use it in small deployments.
So kind of go over a little bit of
how we plug this into the product.
At the tops of WebObjects application,
the big box in the middle is
kind of an illustration to
try and show what OpenEJB is.
So when we talk about an EJB container,
we're really talking
about multiple containers.
There are different bean types,
as you may know,
and EJB 1.1 supports four
different types of beans.
So stateful and stateless session beans,
and entity beans of two varieties,
container managed persistence
and bean managed persistence.
And so those all kind of live in
separate spaces in the big EJB container.
The EJB container talks to transaction
manager services using JTA,
and it talks to other
resources like the orb.
And up on top, you can either talk
RMI IOP to your application,
or plan for the next
release is an intra-VM,
lightweight, fast,
low-latency thing if you want
to just have a single process
talking to your container.
And I think I'll go into that
a little bit later about how we
actually launch the container.
So the container, actually,
when you start-- instantiate a container
in your WebObjects application,
we actually start the container in the
same VM as your WebObjects application.
which means you have low
latency to talk to the beans.
There's no security issues because
you're not really dealing with
requests coming in over the network.
You're in complete control of everything.
And it's real simple to deploy.
You deploy it just like you would
deploy a WebObjects application.
Just launch it or deal
with monitor and task D.
Excuse me.
So we also,
in addition to supplying the container,
we provided a number of new tools.
EJB components are actually represented
as frameworks to match the web component
model and the other frameworks that
you're familiar with if you're a
Cocoa developer or Mac OS X developer.
We've added assistance to
Project Builder for helping create beans.
We've added support to the build
system to generate the deployment
descriptors and the configuration files,
and we'll go into that in
excruciating detail during the demos.
We also, as I mentioned earlier,
start the container automatically
at launch time for you.
And again, we'll go into a little bit
more detail of that later.
And we provide a tool that's run by
the assistance called OpenEJBTool that
actually generates the XML deployment
descriptors and the configuration files,
or sorry,
generates the configuration files
for the container out of your
bean deployment descriptors.
And new, which we'll preview for
you a little bit later,
is a new tool called EO Bean Builder.
And what that will do... It'll
allow you to generate entity beans
from your EO models without you
having to write any code at all.
It'll actually do all the
deployment descriptor generation,
all the class file generation for you,
and give you a fully functional
entity bean without you having to
write any SQL or wonderful JSP code.
Or, sorry, EJB instantiation code.
So why put the EJBs in a framework?
In addition to it being consistent
with the way the rest of WebObjects
applications are developed,
we wanted to make it very easy for you to
just drag and drop it in Project Builder.
So...
A component in EJB should be
thought of as a framework in the
Mac OS X project builder model.
and it works just like
any other framework.
You just drop it and add it to your
project and Project Builder's build
system will do the right thing.
There is a new project type we
added in Project Builder that
allows you to create frameworks.
We'll go through that in the demo.
One important thing is there's
no container-specific information
contained in the EJB framework.
And so what that means is if
you build an EJB framework using
our build system and our tools,
you're able to take the generated jars
and deployment descriptors from that
framework and put them and move them
over to a different EJB container.
We generate separate jars for
interfaces and implementation,
meaning the server side
and the client side.
And as I just mentioned,
the jars are exportable to any container.
So we actually can do beans two ways.
We can import existing compiled
beans with an assistant that
lets you specify jar files.
And then the project builder will
then--the assistant will then create
the necessary framework and associated
deployment descriptors and all the other
infrastructure that project builder needs
to recognize it as a framework in a bean.
Or you can develop beans from source.
You can start as an empty framework and
create whatever you want from source,
any of the four bean types.
So how do you import a bean?
You can actually have more
than one bean in a framework.
You just specify them in the assistant.
We'll go through all
this in the demo later.
You specify beans in the assistant.
It'll merge the jars and the deployment
descriptors and all the fun stuff,
and you can deal with it if
you want manually afterwards.
But we actually do a pretty good job
of merging the deployment descriptors
and letting you just drop things
in without having to modify them.
It'll generate the
RMI stubs if necessary.
It's actually an option.
We make it an option because
actually the RMI generator,
the stub generator, actually is a fairly
time-consuming process,
as you'll see during the demo.
And if you're doing the intra-VM
deployment for rapid turnaround,
you probably don't want to wait the
time for those stubs to compile.
One of the new things we're
thinking about adding for the
next release is a hook to let
you add a bean verification tool.
We don't actually ship
the verification tool,
but it's available from the
Sun Reference implementation.
But you can... What that verification
tool does is it makes sure all the
right things that a bean requires in
the interface are properly in your bean,
things that can't be
checked at compile time.
And it generates a framework
ready for you to leave,
ready to use and drop
into your application.
So if you want to develop from source,
again, we have assistants that create
the template classes for
all four of the bean types.
PB maintains the deployment
descriptor for you.
And again,
you have an option of generating
RMI stubs if you want.
And again, there's a hook.
We're planning to generate
verification tools.
It's actually probably more important
to verify beans that you're writing
from scratch than beans that
you've bought or have precompiled.
So how do you create an app now that
you have these beans in the framework?
There's an option,
as you've probably seen if you've been
in some of the other sessions where
we've been going through creating apps,
where we've been kind of glossed over.
There's a little check box
that says "Deploy as an
EJB container." So what that does,
if you check that box on your
Web Application Assistant,
is it will add all the required
EJB frameworks for runtime,
and it will create all the container
configuration files in XML that
the container needs to run,
and then it just adds them
to the project for you.
One important thing to remember is
in order to best make use of this,
you should make sure that your bean
frameworks are all compiled first,
because the assistant needs to
have the deployment descriptors
from the bean frameworks in order
to really generate as best it can
the other XML configuration files.
So, as I mentioned earlier,
we start the container automatically when
you launch your WebObjects application.
And the way we do that is that's
actually another framework called
Java EJB Activation Framework that
its initializer will actually launch
and configure the container for you.
It's used whether or not you're
using intra-VM mode or RMI mode.
There's a lot of options to
control the container and logging,
which I think we will show at
the end of one of the demos.
OpenEJBTool is a tool that we
wrote that runs at build time,
excuse me, at assistant time,
that creates a deployment
descriptor for the EJB container,
or sorry, creates the configuration
files that the container needs.
The deployment descriptors are actually
already created in the frameworks.
There's a slide in a little bit that
actually shows all these wonderful
XML files that get generated for you.
It also has templates for the
other XML files that are needed,
such as things that can't
be filled in automatically,
like your database connection
dictionary information,
or specifics for container
managed persistence that you
actually need to fill in by hand,
like which column in the table
maps to which field in your CMPB.
So here's a list of the files
that are generated for you.
There's actually five files
that manage the container.
Five, not four.
There are two that are
required in all cases.
The names are rather long,
but you shouldn't have
to worry about them.
The top two,
the Transaction Manager Configuration,
is really kind of an overriding
thing that manages TIREX and
its connection pooling.
OpenEJB Configuration is the
overall container management,
which specifies which
beans will be deployed,
other things.
And we'll go through the XML files.
Not in too much detail,
but we'll show you the
files during the demos.
If you do container manage persistence,
there's a number of other required files
to specify data sources and specify
tables mapping to fields in the beans.
And those are the ones that you're
most likely going to have to tweak
by hand when you deploy the beans.
We fill in placeholders for you,
so they're fairly obvious for
you where it needs to be edited.
So what are some limitations
with what we have today?
I guess the biggest limitation
right now is that EOF and EJB are
really two separate things in
this release of the product.
They don't understand
each other's transactions.
And what I mean by that is that
EOF has a very strong caching
model in the editing context,
and it doesn't talk to the
transaction manager at all.
And so if a bean comes in and
modifies a database table out from
underneath the EOF side of your
application or a different application,
you potentially have stale data.
It's pretty much the same problem you
have today if you have multiple instances
talking to the same database in EOF.
And I think Steve's going to be
talking about something with that in
the advanced EOF session later this
afternoon on how to deal with optimistic
locking failures and concurrency issues.
So you might want to come back for that.
I think it's 5 o'clock this afternoon,
right?
So because of this,
we don't support writing
EOF code inside your EJBs.
If you're going to write a bean,
you're going to write a bean
using the J2EE APIs today.
You probably can get away with a
little bit of EOF code if you're really
careful and know what you're doing,
but it's real easy to get
into trouble right now.
And so we really do not
recommend you doing that.
And again,
the last bullet point to drive it
home is that there's no notifications
at all between EOF and EJB,
and that's the reason we don't
recommend mixing these two
things together right now.
So that's kind of the overview.
I wanted to bring up
Stefan Reich and RD Wilhoyt.
And Stefan's going to talk through
some demos while RD drives them.
Thank you, Jeff.
Good morning and welcome to
the second part of our session,
the technical overview.
We will go through three
demos in the next 30 minutes,
and we will show you the
everyday use of the product.
So let's start with the first demo now.
We will bring up Project Builder
and create a new EJB framework.
So as Jeff mentioned already,
we have a new framework
type called EJB framework.
And we create a new one,
fill in the blanks here.
And also we have two choices
to create an EJB framework.
One choice is to create a development
type framework from source.
The other one is to basically
deploy an EJB component that you
bought off the shelf from somewhere.
So for this first demo,
we will create a new one.
We will create a new source file here.
And this screen shows you the project
builder support for development.
We have four different bean types,
of course.
The stateless and stateful session bean,
the CMP, and the BMP entity bean.
And for this demo, we just use a simple
stateless session bean.
So of course we can fill in
the name and the package name.
And let's have a look at what
project builder renovated for us.
So we have three files that
were created automatically.
We have the bean implementation,
the remote interface,
and the home interface.
So let's have a look at the
bean implementation first.
As you can see,
we have the necessary EJB create method.
We have all of the methods that are
required by the session bean interface.
And there is nothing
really interesting here.
It's just a simple state of session bean.
And we will just uncomment
the code that's automatically
basically serves as a template for you to
remember how to pull in business logic.
So we uncomment this,
and we move on to the remote interface.
The remote interface is, as you know,
the place to place business methods,
business logic.
And this is, of course,
empty because Project Builder
doesn't know by default how
What business logic
you want to implement,
unless it can read your mind,
and project builder is
definitely not there yet.
So, let's uncomment this one method.
and move on to the home interface.
And of course,
that's not very exciting either.
It has the create method,
the standard stateful session bean
create method that takes no arguments.
Now let's have a quick look
at the deployment descriptor.
As you can see,
Project Builder already filled
in all the necessary information.
Since we have the templates
ready for every single bean,
Project Builder knows enough to
fill in everything that's required.
And now let's simply hit compile.
We move on and create a new
WebObjects application that will
link against the framework and call
into the bean that we generated.
So again, we fill in the project name.
And Jeff already showed a
slide that covers this option,
deploy as an EJB container.
What this does is it will fit in
a couple of predefined frameworks
already and make your life easier.
Let's check that.
And we skip all the web services support.
This is not the session for web services.
And for the EOF adapters,
if you use EOF and EJB side by side,
you need to select JDBC adapter.
We are using only EJB here,
so you don't need it.
Now, as you can see,
Project Builder already added the
necessary frameworks for EJB support.
We have the OpenEJB framework,
we have the activation framework,
and we have all of the other pieces
that are required for the EJB to work.
The only thing we are going to
add now is the business logic,
the framework that we just created.
This will enable Project Builder
to create all of the necessary
container files so that the container
can be configured and launched.
That's it, finished.
Now the first thing that we have to do
now is to change the database setup.
We have only the stateful session bean.
We don't need a database,
so we will just remove
the database template that
Project Builder created for us.
There we go.
And now we will add some demo code
that will actually look up the bean
and call the hello method that we
created on the StatefulSession bean.
So after we compile and
run the application,
we will make use of
the rapid development,
the rapid turnaround support that's
present in WebObjects applications.
And we will just type in a
little HTML text and connect.
Connect the HTML with our EJB.
We just use a whole string for it
that will actually call into the
main component and extracts the data
and displays them in our browser.
So the application is running already.
The first screen was blank.
The second screen is blank.
You're trying to get me in trouble.
Okay, so look, it's almost working.
And we will just consider
this demo to be finished.
So that shows you--
Rebuilding.
So the essence of the first demo
is you can create an EJB framework
from the source template.
And then you use it in your
WebObjects application.
Set up the project right from the start.
Yay!
You set up your WebObjects
application right from the start
to link in the right frameworks,
and that's all you need to do.
So we move on to the slides again.
Thank you, Arlene.
Jeff already talked briefly about
a new tool that we provide with
hopefully the next available release.
It's very awkward to hand program
entity beans from your database layout.
And that's exactly what
EO Bean Builder does.
It basically takes a database layout
that is represented in an EO model,
and it generates all of the files
that are necessary to deploy your
database schema to convert it
into an enterprise Java bean.
So we have a wide range of options
to translate the model into an EJB.
and we will go into
details in the next demo.
Currently, there's only one major
limitation of the tool,
and it cannot handle
relationship-- that is,
it cannot handle
relationships automatically.
The two will try and make the best
effort to get you as far as you can,
but after that you have to model
the relationships by yourself.
And we will just demo it right now.
So we will take the
EO model that you see here.
[Transcript missing]
So we move on and launch the tool
and load this specific model.
Here we go.
We select the only data
type that we configured,
the only entity, and now we come to the
fine-grained setup for the EJB.
So as you can see,
you can change all of the
class names that are generated.
You can control some--
For project-based options
like the package name,
you can add a legal disclaimer
or an RCS ID or whatever you want
that is prepended in every file.
Also, it's very important for you to
choose the primary key class.
So if you have an integer representation
of your primary key class,
you will probably want it
to map to the Java integer.
If you have a component primary key,
you need to map it to the
primary key class that will be
automatically generated with
all the primary key attributes.
Then we have a larger section on how
you can configure your BMP support.
And in the first box, yes,
we want to generate a
BMP file to show off
What ugly code you are spared to program.
We are not going to
change the class name.
You can configure the JNDI data
source name to something that is more
[Transcript missing]
The next checkbox would enable you to
reuse business logic that you implemented
in a CMP version of the entity.
And just by inheritance,
you wouldn't need to write
all your business logic once
again in the BMP version.
So we don't care about this now.
The third major option is controlling
support for data access object classes,
or DAO classes in short.
As you all know,
this is a Sun Blueprint pattern that
allows you to apply database-specific
optimizations for your BMP entity beans.
And we want to show this, so we check it.
And of course,
if you need a findAll method
that finds all of the entities
in your database table,
of course,
your bean builder can help you there.
And let's check it.
The CMP support is very short.
There is not much to configure here
because it's really quite easy.
And we are finished with this week.
So the next step is to
actually choose a directory,
and your bean builder will
dump the files in there.
So the idea is that we have tight
integration with Project Builder,
and that we use an empty framework
that we already pre-created.
to hold all the files so that we
can easily rebuild the project and
basically are ready to deploy the bean.
Okay.
So the tool is a little bit verbose
on-- it shows you what it does,
and it's happy.
Very good.
So we are happy also.
And we move on and have a look at all the
files that have been created by the tool.
So we first start with
the remote interface.
The remote interface contains, of course,
all of the getter and setter
methods for each attribute.
Except, of course,
for primary key attributes
and read-only attributes.
So, of course, all of the methods follow
the Java Bean convention with
Prepend of Get and Set.
So that's not very exciting.
So let's move on to the BMP bean.
So we selected the
generate DAO class option.
That means now that in
our BMP implementation,
Every database access will be
delegated to our DAO class.
So therefore,
this implementation is relatively empty.
and contains only the fields
that have been generated that
are mapped to the attributes.
So we have two EJB create methods,
one that takes only
the required arguments,
and one that takes all of
the arguments of our entity.
Then let's go,
we have our findAll method here.
And let's move down to the
setEntityContext method.
This is how you declare the
specific database optimization
or database-specific
DAO class in your project.
In this section, you see that the bean is
looking for an environment entry
called param DAO class name.
It will generate,
it will instantiate whatever
class name you configure here
and use it as the DAO class.
So we actually implement or we
generate two different default classes.
One is the default
Non-optimized version and currently we
create also an Oracle optimized version.
Now let's move on to
The JDBC DAO implementation.
So as you've seen, EJB create method,
EJB load, EJB store,
all these methods are delegated to
the DAO option--to the DAO object.
And here we have the full
beauty of SQL and JDBC.
This is what the tool does for you.
It generates all of the nasty code that
you don't like to program yourself.
And of course,
since this is generated code,
you don't need to debug it.
You can just use it out of the box.
And you've seen it took you like five
minutes to configure it from your
model to the bean implementation.
Okay, I think that's enough nasty stuff.
And now we move on to the Oracle version.
So,
This class adds automatic
primary key support to our
generic JDBC implementation.
So your business code doesn't
have to deal with this at all.
What it does,
it uses an Oracle sequence to select
automatically the unique primary key,
primary key code.
and calls in its superclass,
the generic JDBC class,
and finally does the create method,
does the creation of the bean.
Good.
Let's have a look at the
deployment descriptor.
Of course,
the tool knows everything that's needed
to generate the two entries that are
present in this deployment descriptor,
one for the BMP version of the
bean and one for the CMP version.
And here you can also see
again how you set up the JDBC,
the environment entry to configure
The actual class that's used
for the database delegation.
So in our case, of course,
we use the data type DAO JDBC,
the generic JDBC class.
Then let's quickly
browse the CMP version.
All of the CMP fields are declared here,
everything that is needed
for deploying the bean.
We can have a look at the
transactional attributes.
Also, we provided a default.
[Transcript missing]
So here are some development
tips that we would like to share.
We have seen that EOModeler is very
suitable to model your database
schema and that it provides access,
for example,
helpful functions, for example,
for primary key generation.
We've seen that in the Oracle case.
And we would encourage you
to use EOModeler even in
the--even for EJB development.
After you created your EO model,
we encourage you to use EO Bean Builder.
for entity bean generation.
EO Bean Builder will really save you a
great deal of time and even more time
on debugging that you don't have to do.
We also recommend to basically make
it easier for you to resynchronize
possible schema changes to implement
all of the business-related constraints,
for example, on
on data values in session beans.
That way you can easily resynchronize
and you don't have to change,
you don't have to start and
maintain the code that's generated.
Finally, and I think that's a
very important point,
we encourage you to use a
deployment verification tool.
Although our container
doesn't come with one,
there is one freely available in
the Sun reference implementation.
And that's actually the best
choice because it's the official
interpretation of the rules from Sun.
We have provided hooks in our
build system that will actually
make it possible to choose
your specific deployment tool,
deployment verification
tool that you want to use.
And the second point is
how you can change it,
how you can configure
it in Project Builder.
So wherever there's development,
unfortunately there's debugging.
And we have, also we have a couple
of options how you can
How you can just have a look at,
on what's going on behind
the scenes without actually
having to start a debugger.
We have a verbose mode
that the container,
that the container has that you can
enable by using both EJB container debug.
And this will tell you exactly which
method is invoked on which bean.
And we will show that
later in the next demo.
Also, if you cannot pin down a possible
problem using the first option,
you can start using the second option.
And this will give you a very
detailed overview of what's
going on in the Java layer.
So, for example,
in the most verbose mode,
which is debug level 5,
You are able to see every
single JEOP request message
that goes back and forth.
So there you can see
For example, which strings or which data
is really going over the wire.
And also, it will generate,
it will enable verbose exception logging.
Very important is that
if you see problems,
use project-builder debug support.
I have had great success
in narrowing down problems.
You can set breakpoints in the
EJB frameworks and basically have it
run down until your problem occurs.
forthcoming is log4j logging for
all of the involved components
that will enable you to
basically pass the locks to any--
basically to the-- for example,
to the console or have it locked
to an SNMP system and such.
So we switch to the next demo,
which will be PetStore.
And it will demonstrate how you can,
how you can hook in Tomcat and
the EJB container together to,
to have a very advanced deployment.
This is not,
this is not a very common use case,
but it shows you that you can do it,
basically.
So the first thing, of course,
like in the first demo that we
have to do is we wrap all of the
EJB components involved in this
example in an EJB framework.
And PetSol comes with
seven EJB components.
So in order not to make
the demo a little shorter,
we have already created
Five of them, or six.
And we will only show you how
to add the last component.
So now we will use the useJarFile
option to tell Project Builder
to include a binary EJB component
into our build system.
As you can see, we have separate
representation for the bean.
We have the client side,
which only contains the required
interface to access the bean,
and the second,
the second jar contains the
implementation and everything
the bean needs to be deployed.
So now we have to create a new
WebObjects application that wraps
the EJB framework and provides
the automatic container start.
We will use a pre-compiled
version of this framework to
make the demo a little shorter.
And...
As in the first demo,
we will use deploy as an EJB container.
No web services.
No framework.
And now, again,
we need to add the EJB framework here.
So that Project Builder can go
ahead and create the necessary
container-specific files for us.
So since this example
actually requires a database,
we need to change the database setup
and we will do that in the Transaction
Manager configuration file.
This file holds all of the databases
that are involved in your EJB application
and it also allows you to configure
connection limit and stuff like that.
So as you can see,
we have a JDBC database configured
and the Java mail support.
Now we need to add some launch options
that will allow us to control the
behavior of the EJB container better.
And we add, for example,
the-- the VOR EJB name
service port parameter,
which allows us to start
The Cobber name service that is launched
automatically as part of the container
start on a specific port number.
This is required so that
the server container can
actually find the namespace.
We also included the verbose
debugging level option so that
you can see what the servit--what
the servit here actually invokes.
So I think we are ready here.
In the background,
there is a Cloudscape database
running that has all of the
necessary tables created.
And we have also Tomcat 403 running,
which didn't need to have changed at all.
We just took it from the web and...
created the necessary configuration
setup for Tomcat and that was it.
You can use the off-the-shelf
binary distributions from Tomcat
now to access our container.
What we've done to set up the web
tier is we unjarred the petstore.wav
file in the web apps directory,
and then we had to add,
or we had to patch two files that,
two XML files that didn't conform
to their own DTD to make it work.
Also we had to add the JDBC drivers
because the server tier
actually accesses the database
at the beginning to
create all of the tables.
And that was all that was
required to make the example work.
So here we have PetStore.
In the first one that
we're going to show,
you will see that
All of the pages are very, very slow.
And we went through it a second time,
and you will see that this
is mostly because all of the
JSP pages have to be compiled,
and there is a lot going on behind
the scenes that you don't see here.
In the window above,
you can see that whenever
a D clicks something,
that there are methods
involved on the EJB container.
So this is the output that you see.
When you turn on the debugging
mode and when you have to
nail down possible problems.
Of course,
if you have to nail down problems,
you will see verbose,
you will see verbose exception traces
that will point you to the error.
So apparently,
the server container wants to
have a lot of details here.
and we just go ahead and buy stuff.
What are you buying?
10,000 finches or something?
Good?
I like birds.
Good.
I'm going to have to take
a look at that budget.
Oh, well.
Hmm.
I thought it was free.
This is the standard demo that every
application server vendor shows off.
to show that the container
runs the PEDSOR example.
Of course, we're running PEDSOR 1.1.2,
which is the latest PEDSOR version
that runs on EJB 1.1.
Now we go through it a second time,
and you will see that everything is
pretty fast now that the container,
basically both of the container,
have actually warmed up.
I think that's enough.
So this concludes our demo.
Thank you, Ali.
And we now return to
the executive summary.
So what have we learned?
So the key message today is that
our EJB integration is ready for
both development and deployment.
As you have seen,
Petzl runs a large variety of
applications run without any problems.
And this is the key message.
You have a lot of development and
deployment support from WebObjects
and from the EJB container.
The second message you should take home
is that we have strong tool support,
the EO Bean Builder, the EO Modeler that
makes your life easier.
And thirdly,
we have learned that EJB and EOF are
actually supplementing each other,
that by adding EJB to our
WebObjects application,
we have a real value add.
That's a new slide.
So if you want to if you want to have
a new look or a look at the current
[Transcript missing]
Now we have the end titles.
The WebObjects app is open until 6 p.m.
today and tomorrow, the whole day.
You can play around.
You don't have access to the
EOModeler tool that I showed,
but you have access to the
currently shipping version.
Very important for us,
please give us feedback on
all aspects of WebObjects,
including, of course, the EJB support.
and I'm waiting for you all
to show up at 3:30 tomorrow.
Who to contact?
Tony or Bob at WebObjects@apple.com
or if you need professional advice
on support or on development,
please go ahead and contact
Apple Professional Services.
For more information, we have, of course,
our website.
We have--
We have all the developer
documentation online,
and we have a couple of other places
where you can find various documentation,
various information about our product.
If you're interested in OpenEJB itself,
please have a look at
openejb.sourceforge.net.
There you can see what's
going on the latest.
The latest news, basically.
Kessler and Tyrex have their own website.
They are hosted at exolab.org
if you're interested.
And of course,
if you need generic EJB advice,
there are many books out there
and there are even more web links.
Our documentation staff has
created a special EJB book that
describes our EJB integration.
The project will support
everything that we showed today.
Please go ahead and read it.
It's available online and on the CD.
And of course,
the documentation is the freshest
documentation is always online.
Both PDF and HTML are there.
You can print it on
demand if you want to.
We have all of the required
documentation on the CD and in the box.
And the latest and breaking
news are in the ADC newsletter.